=Love Story in the 1970s=
=Episode 11=
You two are not sleeping together?
Of course we are.
Then, what's with the bunk bed?
We sleep on the bottom,
and use the top for storage.
It's practical.
- Storage?
- Yeah, storage.
There's a lot of stuff.
See?
Well, that's new.
Honestly,
regular beds are expensive.
We can't afford one.
So we went with this.
No one wanted it, so we grabbed it.
It's nice. Really.
Well, we're neighbors now,
so we'll be
seeing each other.
I won't keep you.
I'll get going.
- I'll walk you out.
- No need.
You stay. I'll head off.
- Alright.
- Bye.
That was close.
Way too close.
She kind of had a point, though.
Maybe we could squeeze in
and use the top for storage.
In your dreams. Get cleaning.
(Jiangnan Municipal People's Hospital)
(Doctors' Office)
Qu,
let's grab some lunch.
I'll pass. You go ahead.
Your wife brings you meals anyway.
All right.
I'll head out first, then.
Dr. Qu,
your lunch.
Where's Fang Mujing?
Ms. Fang?
She's at school.
She said from now on, I'll bring
your meals and clothes.
All right. I'll get going.
You're back.
Why didn't you go to the hospital?
I did for a week
to fulfill my duties as a wife.
I'm done.
I have my own work.
You just wanted to prove
you're prettier than the others.
I want to prove a math theorem.
You don't love me at all.
Do you love me?
Is it that you can't answer
or you won't?
I just won't tell a lie
that's exposed
the moment it's questioned.
You won't lower yourself to love me.
I understand.
But don't expect me
to fawn over you either.
I hope you understand that.
Love takes time for me.
For me too.
If there's nothing else,
I'd like to finish writing that proof.
(Jiangcheng)
Ni.
Hey, Brother.
Thanks for coming.
- It's nothing.
- I've got it.
Fang Muyang,
take my luggage home first.
I need to run an errand.
What errand?
I'm going to Lin Mei's.
You really are her brother.
I was thinking the same thing.
I was thinking we'd go to Lin Mei's
and propose when you've arrived.
That won't do.
I can't let you tag along to a proposal.
Why not?
You know what her parents are like.
If Mom and Dad go, it'll end in a fight.
I'm the perfect choice.
I'm a girl,
and I'm Lin Mei's best friend.
They won't say anything harsh to me.
I've talked it through with Lin Mei.
Let's go.
Wait.
Bring these.
I picked these for her parents.
Come on.
Let Mom and Dad know.
Brother.
Go get her.
Smart move buying these.
It's mine!
Easy. Why are you pressing so hard?
I'm taking your piece.
When you play on my board,
you press harder than that.
Your board? What board is that?
Can it compare to mine?
This is a sandalwood chessboard.
Sandalwood, you know?
It just sounds premium.
Fine, I'll be gentler.
Fei,
before the others get here,
let me ask you something.
When Fei Ni got married,
why wasn't there a wedding?
If she'd married Ye Feng,
there would've been a banquet, right?
Liu, that's the problem with you.
You're too materialistic.
What matters most in a marriage?
The person you're marrying.
Can Ye Feng compare to Fang?
Fang is a hero.
No offense,
but you're muddleheaded at chess,
and just as muddleheaded
picking a son-in-law.
A title?
What does that really prove?
Has he dated anyone before?
Did he get into trouble
in the countryside?
Does he have a child?
Do you know any of that?
Of course I do.
He was recognized by both
the Educated Youth Office
and the factory administration.
Wouldn't they know his background?
The Educated Youth Office
won't be the one marrying him.
Checkmate.
I'm done.
Come on, there are still moves left.
No more chess today
because your son comes home?
Honey.
What is it?
When I was playing chess
with Liu just now,
he said something
that got me thinking.
Why do we trust Fang Muyang
so wholeheartedly?
What's not to trust?
I think he's a good kid.
He is.
He does seem decent.
But I can't help worrying.
What if Fang Muyang
is hiding something from us?
He and Ni were classmates
in middle school,
but they hadn't seen
each other for seven years.
While he was
at the educated youth post,
did he date anyone?
Did he get into any trouble?
We don't know.
You're only thinking of this now?
They've already registered.
What's the point of second-guessing?
Run all the way
to Great Northern Wilderness over this?
I wouldn't go that far.
Still,
it's better to find out
than stay in the dark.
Besides,
what if something did happen?
So what's your plan?
I've got an idea.
Hear me out.
They say
the truth comes out after a few drinks.
Tonight, I'll bring some liquor
and get Comrade Fang drunk.
We'll see what he really has to say.
When you men get drunk,
it's all nonsense.
There's no "truth."
If two out of ten
drunken ramblings are real, it's enough.
Fine. Go ahead.
We're out of liquor at home.
Apply for a liquor coupon.
So all that talk was
just an excuse to drink?
No, no!
You know
I haven't been feeling well lately.
The smell of alcohol makes me sick.
I can barely stand it.
I'm doing this for our daughter.
I'm making a sacrifice here.
How much do you need?
The kid can't hold his liquor.
100 to 150 mL at most.
So, I'll get 500 mL.
How much?
500 mL liquor.
500 mL?
No, no...
Better safe than sorry.
What if he doesn't get drunk
and nothing comes out?
It'll all be for nothing.
You can't catch a wolf without bait.
Fine.
I've heard of brothers
proposing for their sisters,
but a sister proposing for her brother?
That's a first for me.
Mrs. Lin, I'm always
at your place anyway.
I know it well.
So I volunteered.
Fei Ni, you're always welcome
to visit us.
But if you're here
to propose for your brother,
don't expect me to smile about it.
You know exactly what I'm like.
I have a reputation for being picky.
Mom,
how can you say that?
Because it's true.
I like men with good education,
steady jobs,
and preferably housing of their own.
Fei Ting, which of those do you have?
(Lin Mei's Father)
He qualifies as "a man."
And who isn't?
Our Lin Mei
may not be highly educated,
but she works at
the Supply and Marketing Cooperative.
The Cooperative!
Do you know how many people
can't even get in there?
Look at all the things you bought.
This pile of stuff
was all purchased from the Cooperative.
Right?
Let me be honest with you.
There's a young man from the bus station
who's been pursuing our Lin Mei.
He drives a passenger bus.
You've heard the saying, right?
Once you've got your hands on the wheel,
you wouldn't trade it
for a county chief.
Fei Ting,
where have you been assigned?
Mrs. Lin, I just returned to the city.
I haven't been assigned yet.
So, is that no assignment yet,
or no chance of getting one?
Let me be clear today.
You two are not a match.
We don't approve.
So give up on this idea.
And take back
all these gifts.
You can use them
for your next blind date.
Please, Mrs. Lin...
Mom...
Mrs. Lin, I don't think
you're snobbish.
I think you're just shortsighted.
What do you mean?
That young man from the bus station,
his name is Chen Yunguo, right?
That's right.
To be honest,
he wooed me too.
So you see,
aside from having a good job,
he's slick-tongued,
always on the road,
traveling all over.
Can you really be sure
he'll settle down
with Lin Mei?
Yes,
my brother
hasn't secured a job yet.
But he will.
Look at him.
He's steady,
reliable,
mature,
responsible,
and caring.
Lin Mei would never suffer marrying him.
And Mrs. Lin,
everyone in our family,
from top to bottom,
adores Lin Mei.
She'd be welcomed.
We grew up together.
If anyone ever dared bully her,
I'd be the first to stand up for her.
Yes.
Our family isn't wealthy.
But I promise you that
whatever we have,
she'll have too.
Mrs. Lin,
you can't judge
just by how things look right now.
That really would be shortsighted.
Life is long.
We have to think long-term.
Who truly cares about Lin Mei,
and who she genuinely wants to be with
are what matter.
Mom, Fei Ni's right.
I love Fei Ting.
I want to be with him.
I hope you'll support me.
Let's say, hypothetically,
you do get married.
Where will you live?
And another thing,
when will your job be settled?
Mr. Lin, Mrs. Lin, here's the plan.
After we marry, we'll live
with my family in the factory
housing compound.
We'll have our own room.
It's an apartment with washrooms
and toilets on each floor.
As for work,
I'll settle it as soon as possible.
Then we'll talk after you've settled it.
Fei Ni can talk all she wants,
but
no matter how beautifully you phrase it,
I will not marry my daughter
to an unemployed man.
That's my bottom line.
Mrs. Lin,
do you mean that once my brother
has a job,
you'll agree to the marriage?
That depends on what kind of job it is.
All right.
I understand.
(When our comrades
face difficulties,)
(we must see our achievements,
see the light,)
(and bolster our courage.)
Dad, you're in a great mood today
to have a drink with me.
Let me.
That's enough.
Enough.
That's good, Dad. Thanks.
I can't hold my liquor.
Afraid you'll say
something you shouldn't?
No.
Ask me anything. I'll tell you.
Good.
Cheers.
Ni told me
your memory's back.
Yes.
That's good. Very good. Cheers.
You were sent down at seventeen.
Yes.
Stayed in Great Northern Wilderness
the whole time?
Never transferred?
Tell me about it.
What was it like there?
There's a lot to tell.
Good, good.
Come on,
bottoms up.
Start from the beginning.
That first year
at the Great Northern Wilderness
youth post,
how many were there?
How many men?
How many women?
The first year,
we had eighteen in total.
Twelve men,
six women.
What about the second year?
A lot came in the second year.
From Henan, Hebei,
Shanxi, Shandong,
Jiangsu, and Sichuan.
How many from Hebei?
Two men, four women.
Shanxi?
Six men, two women.
Jiangsu?
Jiangsu...
Hubei.
That's where your mother
and I got married.
Did you know that?
Back then, I was just
a farm boy.
The county's Peking Opera troupe
came to the village scouting talent.
Most people didn't dare go.
They were afraid
they'd lose their farmland.
But not me.
Your old man
got good looks.
I threw in a backflip,
and they took me on the spot.
The next year, the young
actresses in the troupe,
at least eight or ten of them,
had their eyes on me.
The young lady, Xu Guihua, was a huadan.
[* A young female role in Peking Opera.]
She was dressed in a green robe,
still dancing on stage.
Luo Yufen.
And there was also
that...
That pretty arts soldier.
I think the surname was Lin.
Well, a big forest
has all kinds of birds.
Come on, another drink.
Give it here, lightweight drinker.
Tonight we drink
to celebrate our victory.
Easy, easy.
Until our ambitions are fulfilled,
we won't rest!
We'll prove ourselves yet...
Dad...
Slow down.
Careful.
- We'll gladly shed our burning blood!
- Dad!
I can't walk anymore.
Let me lie down here for a bit.
You head back first.
I'll go home when I wake up.
I'll stay with you.
Fang, tell me the truth.
In Great Northern Wilderness,
were you ever married?
Do you have a child?
Dad,
I promise you,
back in Great Northern Wilderness,
I was never married,
and I have no children.
Don't lie to me.
You can't lie.
I'm not.
I promise you and Mom that
Fei Ni
is the only woman I'll ever love.
Good.
Fang.
You are fortunate
to have married Fei Ni.
Understand?
Yes.
My daughter
is very talented,
beautiful,
and kind.
Such a wonderful girl.
It's just that her father's no good.
When other girls get married,
they get the Four Big Items.
The full set of furniture.
And our Ni?
Her new home
barely has anything.
Forget a proper wedding.
I couldn't even
put out some wedding candy.
I know
our Ni is sensible.
She knows we don't have money.
She didn't want us to spend it.
But that's because her father
isn't capable.
Tell me,
what kind of father am I?
When it came to college,
I couldn't help her much.
When it came to housing,
I couldn't help either.
I feel sorry for her!
Dad,
Fei Ni is lucky
to be born into this family.
You all love her so much.
Can love put food on the table?
Let me tell you,
sometimes I regret it.
If I had married
Luo Yufen instead,
would I be living like this now?
Luo Yufen is now
a leader in the cultural bureau.
No, if I'd married Luo Yufen,
there wouldn't be our Ni.
No Fei Ting either.
Not even Comrade Wu Baoying.
No!
I couldn't give them up.
I want Fei Ting. I want Fei Ni.
I want Wu Baoying.
More booze...
Fei.
Wake up.
Fang, let's drink.
Still drinking?
Fang?
You were lying
on his lap for four hours.
Do you know that?
Fei Ting searched everywhere for you
before carrying you home.
Fei Ting!
My son's back.
Well?
How did the proposal go?
Pretty smoothly.
Mom said you were going
to get Fang Muyang drunk.
How did you end up drunk instead?
You clearly don't understand drinking.
If I didn't get drunk,
how was I supposed to get him drunk?
That's called,
"Nothing ventured, nothing gained."
Where's my shoe?
Why is one missing?
Go look for it.
My shoe!
Where'd it go?
Oh no, Dad.
It might have fallen off
when I carried you back.
Go find it!
Look carefully!
Can't you do anything right?
Anything at all?
So you "ventured" with him,
where's the result?
What did you find out?
Fang
is a good kid.
That's it?
Yep.
Fei Mingde!
After eight hours
and all that liquor,
and that's all you got?
What more do you want to hear?
No news is the best news.
Would you rather I tell you
he's got a wife
in Great Northern Wilderness
and two illegitimate kids?
Would that make you happy?
Honey.
You stink.
Go wash up.
I only drank, didn't eat a thing.
What's left at home?
Make me a bite.
All you think about is food.
Dad.
Xu Guihua,
Luo Yufen,
and that arts soldier
you once knew,
Ms. Lin...
(Behind the photo frame)
(are two liquor coupons)
(and 8.5 yuan.)
(Plus the meat coupon
you lost last month.)
(I remember everything.)
(We're on the same boat now.)
(Put in a good word
for me with Mom.)
Why did I blurt all that out?
Still numb?
Yeah.
Can't feel it.
You couldn't move his head?
The ground was hard.
How much did you two drink?
More than 500 mL.
Your dad had at least 450 mL.
That much?
Yeah.
He told me every embarrassing thing
you've done as a kid.
What did he say?
He said...
He and your mom love you very much.
Do you know how much I envy you?
Envy me for what?
For having a family
that loves you like this.
Your mom may nag,
but when it comes to you,
she worries the most.
Your dad may seem unreliable,
but once he's drunk,
all he talks about
is you.
And your brother too.
I think I finally understand
why I feel so at ease when I'm with you.
You grew up
showered with your family's love.
I benefit from that too.
Fei Ni,
what's your dream wedding like?
I've never thought about it.
Then think about it now.
Maybe...
with my dad, my mom,
and my brother all there.
We'll have it lively and warm.
Why are you back so late?
Sketching.
You can sketch this late?
Observing nocturnal animals.
By the way, Fei Ni,
can you knit a mesh bag?
Sure.
We're doing
still-life sketching next lesson.
The perspective through a mesh is great.
Can you make me one?
The bigger the better.
No problem.
All right.
I'll wash up.
You're going out?
To Jiangcheng.
On business?
My younger brother wrote.
He invited me to his wedding.
Do you want me to go with you?
Do you want to?
If you want me there, I'll go.
Then don't.
My brother's always been carefree,
full of tricks.
You wouldn't like him.
At least in my opinion,
he has one redeeming quality.
What's that?
He has a heart.
At the very least,
he invited you.
So you're implying
I don't have a heart?
I didn't say that.
If that's how you choose to take it,
I can't help that.
Finish packing.
I'm going to shower.
All aboard!
(Jiangnan)
The train to Jiangcheng
is about to depart.
Please get on quickly!
Sorry, Comrade.
It's fine.
Sorry.
What are you doing here?
The person sitting here
got off at Yongxing.
I've been here fifteen minutes.
You didn't look up once.
You're probably the most focused reader
I've ever met.
But I should mention that
looking down at a book for too long
isn't good
for your neck.
Liu, play a few hands for me.
I'm going to the restroom.
Okay.
Where are you headed?
Jiangcheng.
Don't misunderstand.
It has nothing to do with you.
The hospital assigned me to Jiangcheng
for a neurosurgery symposium.
What a coincidence.
Yes.
Quite a coincidence.
By the way...
I happened to buy two sleeper tickets.
(Hard sleeper)
Why don't you switch to a sleeper?
If you get tired from reading,
you can lie down and rest.
(Hard sleeper ticket)
(China Science)
(Introduction to Higher Mathematics)
If you want to attend
Fang Muyang's wedding,
I can take you with me.
I'm not interested.
Don't misunderstand.
I didn't come to Jiangcheng
because of you.
I told you,
I'm here on business.
Of course I don't misunderstand.
It just so happens
your hospital sent you to Jiangcheng,
you happened to book
the same train as me,
and happened to run into me on board.
Pure coincidence.
I'm glad you see it that way.
Once we reach Jiangcheng,
we'll mind our own business.
Sure.
Comrade,
could you not spit
sunflower shells everywhere?
What?
Did it hit you?
Please put your feet down.
My legs are this long.
I need the leg room.
I'm a doctor.
I can arrange an amputation.
What's your problem?
If you can't crack seeds properly,
I'll stitch your mouth shut.
Who are you?
What's it to you?
I'm her husband.
Does that give me the right?
(Marriage Certificate)
If I put my feet down,
would you like it?
What's wrong with you?
Have some manners.
Fine.
I'll stop eating.
Happy now?
Take my berth.
What are you doing?
What's going on here?
Comrade!
Are you sneaking around fishing?
No, no.
I was...
I was picking up trash.
There's so much litter on the bank.
You've got good awareness, young man.
All right, it's pitch dark.
Head back early.
Yes.
Don't forget to take the trash with you.
Of course.
Let's go.
Move it.
Coming, coming.
Hurry up.
(Ten yuan, One yuan)
(I took the money without telling her.)
(Was that too much?)
(Forget a proper wedding.)
(I couldn't even)
(put out some wedding candy.)
(I love this family so much.)
(So much.)
(Maybe...)
(with my dad, my mom,
and my brother all there.)
(We'll have it)
(lively and warm.)
(Fei Ni.)
(I promise)
(I'll pay you back soon.)
Fang Muyang.
What's so secretive?
Can't we talk at home?
Brother-in-law.
Fei Ni told me that back
in Great Northern Wilderness,
you fed the whole post
with just one big iron pot.
Is that true?
Of course it's true.
Let me put it this way.
Whatever flies,
runs,
swims, or hops in the grass,
if it's edible,
I can stew it in one pot.
Then, I've found the right man.
So, Brother-in-law,
care to help
with your sister's wedding?
The wedding?
(The masses have boundless creativity.)
(Xiangyang Road)
Bus No. 4 to Worker-Peasant Hospital.
What about you?
I'll head east.
Be careful on the way.
(Jiangcheng No. 2 Guesthouse)
What are you doing here?
What a coincidence.
The guesthouses
near the hospital are full.
So...
It's your brother's wedding tomorrow.
Shouldn't you prepare
something for him?
No.
I don't even plan to tell him I'm here.
Why?
♪After the laughter, I think of you♪
♪After the storm, I think of you♪
♪In the little courtyard,
there you are dancing♪
♪That earnest you,
smiling so innocently♪
♪In spring, I stay by your side♪
♪When summer comes, I watch over you♪
♪In the light of dawn, you belong to me♪
♪At the edge of the world,
I will still hold you tight♪
♪There is a small place♪
♪Where they carry big dreams♪
♪Every lovely face♪
♪Shines brightly in the heart♪
♪Even when we collide,
we hold our course♪
♪Even when we stumble,
we keep our resolve♪
♪My you, walking toward the distance♪
♪Please carry our dreams
and let them soar♪